# Chapter 11
## Contracts for RE Transactions

> ### Principles of contract law to listing agreements and contracts of purchase and sale

Listing agreement
: Contract between owner and RE brokerage whereby brokerage agrees to try to find purchaser for lister property in return for vendor paying a stipulated amount of commission should the brokerage be successful.

Contract of purchase and sale
: Contains obligations of vendor and purchaser.
- Names and occupations of parties
- Description of property being sold
- Description of price and related financing
- HBRP (can't be waived)
- Terms and conditions
- Deposit
- PDS
- Remuneration<br>Parties acknowledge compensation
- Builders liens
    - Strata强制7%，不需要加条款。

> ### Requirement of writing in land contracts

除了3年以内的租赁，其他房地产活动都需要书面合同。<br>Contracts are enforceable only against persons signing the documents
- Prove existence of contract
    - 否认方的一些行为确认合同存在
    - 否认方同意对方的行为确认
- 合理基于合同，上诉方采取一些行为，并改变了他们的情况。

Incomplete contract is enforceable.

Offers, acceptances, counter-offers and amendments should be in writing.

> ### Remedies to requirement not met

- Specific performance
- Damages
- Restitution

> ### Information required in listing contract and verifying information

- Subject property
    - financial encumbrances
    - type of dwelling, size, type of insulation
- Environmental information
    - historic factor
    - geographic factors
    - contamination
- Land title search
    - registered owners
    - charges registered against property
    - plan in LTO can't be used as survey of property
- Physical features of property

> ### Home buyer rescission period

- Within 3 business days of entering into contract
- Pay seller fee of 0.25% of purchase price
- Can't be waived by parties to contract
- Include manufactured home affixed to land
- Exclude leasehold interest and property sold at auction, under court order, **development units**.
- Written notice of rescission
    - PID, address, name of parties, signature, date of rescission
    - by registered mail, fax, email with requested read receipt
- Informed consent to be obtained through delivery of Disclosure of Representation in Trading Services form
    - Walk through for clients
    - Only provide to unrepresented party

> ### Terms and conditions

**Condition**
: Fundamental term of contract, a breach of which allows injured party to terminate contract, and/or sue for damages or specific performance.

**Term**/**Warranty**
: Subsidiary term of contract, a breach of which allows injured party to sue for damages but doesn't allow termination.

**Collateral warranty**
: Associated with, but outside of, particular agreement.

**Doctrine of Merge**
: Agreement and parties' rights are merged in conveyance so that party must look to deed itself for remedy except

- Fraud
- Mutual mistake
- Innocent misrepresentation amounts to *error in substantialibus*
- Contractual condition
- Warranty collateral to contract surviving the closing.

In buyer's best interests, PDS should be incorporated into standard contract.

> ### Conditions precedent and subsequent

**Condition precedent**
: Legal term for a 'subject to' clause, happening before binding upon parties.

- Subjective criterion depends on personal view
- Objective criterion depends on external event
- If too subjective, court will find clause to be uncertain (Even with acceptance, it is no more than an offer).

**Condition subsequent**
: Occurrence of which will discharge principal obligation of party to contract.

**True condition precedent**
: Dependent on someone who is not a party to contract, which can't be waived unilaterally.

By *Law and Equity Act*, clause is for sole benefit of buyer/seller allows to waive subject clause, thereby overriding common law rule.

> ### Vendor to be protected from conditions precedent in contract of purchase and sale

- Prequalification of purchaser by licensee
- Time limit on satisfaction of condition precedent
- Right to invoke time clause

> ### Properly remove condition precedent from contract of purchase and sale

- Deliver written notice to every party before subject removal deadline
- Fulfill or waive.

> ### Amend contract of purchase and sale
- Discussion about proposed change will not terminate existing contract
- Amendment amounts to contract

> ### Assign contract of purchase and sale

Developers collect assignment information to report to CSAIR periodically (quarterly and annually), helping CRA to compare tax return against assignors.

> ### Provisions of *Competition Act*

- Federal statute, by Competition Bureau
- Contains both criminal and civil prohibitions
- Criminal (不需要明确合同，可以推断，但是要证明 beyond reasonable doubt)
    - Agreements in restraint of trade
        - 限定费率、划分区域业务、限定公司与员工分成、限定员工涉及业务
        - 限制操纵其他人在行业内业务
        - 设定特殊服务费
    - Misleading ads/Deceptive practice<br>False or misleading in material respect

- Civil by Competition Tribunal (proof on balance of probability)
    - Agreements between competitors
        - lessen or prevent competition
        - 协议禁止某人从事
        - 从事业务需要同意
    - Misleading ads/Deceptive practice
    - Price maintenance
    - Sale above advertised price

> ### Negotiation

Effective negotiation
- Time and efforts
- Satisfaction of parties
- Resources wasted.

> ### Behavioral principles and strategies for effective negotiations

- Preparation principles
    - What are issues
    - What are interests
    - What are priorities
    - What are some possible solutions
    - Consider objective standards
    - What are your alternatives
    - Know your resistance point
    - Set a high goal
- Exchange principles
    - Focus on interests
    - Packaging and trading off
    - Focus on objective standards
    - Strategic concessions
- Principles of communication
    - Listen actively
- Relationship principles
    - Firm but conciliatory
    - Perspective taking
    - Dirty tactics
        - false authority
        - eleventh hour throw in
        - deception
        - stress
        - negative emotions
- Additional considerations
    - Time is an asset
    - Anchoring effect

> ### Strategies for managing and reducing risk of litigation for professional activities

Risk shifting
- Insurance
- Referring certain work out
- PDS
- Third party experts

Risk anticipation
- Avoid purchaser's remorse
- Document disclosures and disclaimers
- Avail yourself of others' experience
- Continuing education

Risk control
- Procedures and policies
- Avoid litigation flashpoint