# Chapter 15
## Introduction to Mortgage Law

> ### Mortgage, mortgagee and mortgagor

**Mortgage**
: Document evidencing debt owed by borrower (mortgagor) to lender (mortgagee). Not a debt itself.<br><br>Registration of mortgage in LTO transfers mortgagor's interest in land to mortgagee as security for repayment of debt and creates enforceable security interest in land.

> ### Legal mortgage vs. Equitable mortgage

**Legal mortgage**
: Registered as charge against title to property in order to be enforceable security interest and to have legal effect as against third party.

**Equitable mortgage**
: Agreements not registered on title as legal mortgage. Enforceable against borrower, but not against third party.
- By deposit of duplicate certificate of title
    - delivery of duplicate certificate
    - intention to create mortgage
- By agreement to give mortgage
    - lender files caveat to protect
    - procedurally unregisterable, but not prohibited by statue
- By disguising mortgage as transfer
    - can't circumvent doctrine of equity of redemption.

> ### Implied and express terms of mortgage

==**Implied terms**==

**Prohibition against clogging**<br>
Borrower can't be prevented by mortgage terms from eventually redeeming property.

**Stipulations for a collateral advantage**<br>
If collateral advantage is subject of independent bargain, it may be valid after redemption.

**Principle of good faith**<br>**Duty of honest performance**

==**Express terms**==<br>
Lender must obtain acknowledge from borrower that they have received standard terms and modifications.
- Repayment clause
- Acceleration on default<br>贷款人违约，借款人可以要求提前还款，结束贷款<br>At option of lender, borrow can't compel
- Omnibus clause<br>Foreclosure with unpaid property taxes or strata charges, but mortgage in good standing
- Insurance<br>Property is adequately insured
- Repairs<br>No alteration or improvements without lender's consent and lender's security is maintained
- Fixtures
- Lender's remedies
- Advances
- Costs
- Charges in priority
- Further charges
- Strata property clause
- Guarantor
    - covenantor (primary debtor)
- Due on sale clause<br>Prevent mortgage from being assumed by anyone unacceptable to lender
- Portability<br>Current mortgage to new property.

> ### Special types of mortgages

Interim blanket mortgage
- For development units

Vendor take-back mortgage
- Buyer not qualified for financing through conventional lender
- No restriction with private vendor financing
- No fee for arranging mortgages

Reverse annuity mortgage

Bridge financing

> ### Scope and effect of federal *Interest Act* and *Criminal Code*

*Interest Act*
- 5% per annum (如果约定付利息，但是没有约定利率)
- Interest rate calculated either annually or semi-annually
- Unenforceable if charging higher rate on monies owing after default
- Prepayment + prepayment penalty (3 months' interest)
    - Conditions
        - individual borrower
        - mortgage is not payable until $\geq$ 5 years from date of mortgage
        - expiration of 5 years
    - Renew vs. Extend
    - Lender loses prepayment penalty when commencing foreclosure proceedings.

*Criminal Code*
- Interest rate
    - criminal rate $\geq$ 60%, including aggregate fees, fine, bonus, and commissions
- Mortgage fraud
    - 诈骗贷款，用于不属于贷款目
    - 卖方代理人欺骗性隐藏贷款、房屋信息，引诱买房购买
    - 明知有未注册贷款，欺骗性卖出房产。

> ### Scope and effect of relevant provincial legislation

***Business Practices and Consume Protection Act***<br>
Allow court to intervene if loan is excessive and transaction is harsh and unconscionable.

***Mortgage Brokers Act***<br>
Regulate persons dealing in mortgages to ensure public feels their interests as consumers of mortgage products are protected.<br><br>Mortgage brokers and sub-mortgage brokers must be registered in mortgage broker register.

Mortgage broker
- 从事借贷业务
- 自称mortgage broker
- 从事抵押贷款交易
- 收入$1,000贷款交易费每年
- 每年交易10单
- 从事抵押贷款收款业务。

Sub-mortgage broker
: Employed by mortgage broker.

不需要登记
- 保险业务员、银行、信托、credit union、律师、政府部门
- 法院指派处理人员
- 借贷自己的钱，给自己员工提供住房。

***Environmental Management Act***<br>Create exemption from remediation liability for lenders.<br><br>
Lenders are liable when
- control over or impose requirements causing site contaminated
- become registered owner of contaminated property.

> ### Assigning mortgage by lender, and rights and obligations of lender, borrower and assignee

- Lender can transfer interest in land and its right to receive money, **without consent of, or prior notice to**, borrower
- After assignment, assignee needs to give written notice to borrower
- Assignee is entitled to enforce lender's rights directly against borrower
- Unless lender fraudulently misrepresents balance, lender will not be liable to assignee at default.

> ### Assuming mortgage and risks involved
**Continuing liability of original borrower**
: Original borrower may remain liable on personal covenant if buyer who assumes mortgage defaults on their payment.

*Property Law Act* provides for the right of lender to maintain direct action against buyer assuming mortgage.

Limitation of vendor's liability where purchaser assumes vendor's mortgage for residential purpose
- 拨款方同意
- 贷款到期，并未在3个月内要求付清
- 在转让的3个月内，拨款方并未要求vendor付清。

**Novation**
: Substitution of one contract for another.<br>Broader than *Property Law Act*, not limited to residential mortgage.
- New borrower must assume complete liability
- Lender must accept new borrower as principal borrower, neither guarantor nor agent
- Lender must accept new contract in full satisfaction and substitution.

> ### Provisions of various provincial and federal legislation to the issue of priority

- Priority depends on order of registration in LTO
- 如果抵押贷款明确说明是基于另一个抵押贷款，那么另外抵押贷款优先
- 分批入账贷款
    - 如果后面的贷款借款人没有书面通知，前贷款优先
    - 贷款协议说明分批入账，该贷款保持优先
    - 后面贷款借款人协议同意贷款优先级。

**Statutory priorities**

Builders Lien Act
- 自lien提交日，优先于任何抵押贷款自lien提交日
- 优先于之后进款贷款。

Employment Standards Act
- 优先于任何lien、judgments、charges，但是低于先前mortgage registered。

Local Government Act/Community Charter
- 不用注册
- 高于其他
- 可以强制售卖付税款。

Strata Property Act
- Fines can't form part of lien.

Workers Compensation Act
- Wage claim lien > Worker compensation lien

Deemed Trust Claim
- 欠CRA税款
- 如果贷款人已经卖出房产，借款人需要付清税款
- Priority above all security interest.

Wage claim lien > Property tax lien > Builder lien > Strata corporation's lien

> ### Relief available to lender in foreclosure proceeding

**Foreclosure**
: Legal action by mortgagee to realize on security by reason of mortgagor's default on mortgage.

- 优先抵押贷款可以foreclose后面的
- 后面的可以redeem前面的抵押贷款。

Relief in foreclosing proceeding
- 寻求优先权
- Order to set redemption period
- 计算所有欠款
- 计算每个人欠款，并分离
- Appoint receiver<br> To collect rents, pay bills and keep business going if mortgaged property has been abandoned or contains commercial operation.
- Possession of property
- Certificate of pending litigation
- Costs of proceeding

> ### Steps in foreclosure proceeding and rights of parties involved

1. Demand letter
    - 借款方出具通知函，告知贷款人和担保人已经违约，要求付清全款
    - Prescribed form
    - 10日后强制收回抵押物
    - 农场15日
1. Petition and supporting affidavit
    - File petition in BC Supreme Court
    - Lender aka petitioner
    - All other charge holders whose interests rank in priority behind lender aka respondents
1. Service of petition and support affidavit
    - Respondents回复提供证词
1. Petition hearing
1. Court proceedings
    - Order Nisi -> Conduct of sale -> Order approving sale
        - 取决于redemption period长短，决定是不是马上卖
        - Conduct of sale时，所有权归借款人
    - Order Nisi -> Order absolute of foreclosure
        - 借款人不能付清
    - Immediate order absolute of foreclosure<br>If no equity
        - Lender becoming registered owner
        - Personal covenant in mortgage is extinguished.

***Order nisi***
: Final order of court in foreclosure process which may not be challenged except by way of appeal.
- Grant relief
- Fix redemption period
- In redemption period, 贷款人可以自己卖房，不需要司法监督。

**Order absolute of foreclosure**
: Declares that the respondents are foreclosed of any right, title, or interest in the mortgaged property, extinguishes the right of redemption, and directs them to deliver up possession of the property to the petitioner.<br><br> Once the order is pronounced, the foreclosure proceedings are concluded


Distribution of sale proceeds<br>
1. Property tax and utilities
1. Strata fees
1. RE commission
1. Petitioner's mortgage + court cost
1. Into court to credit of foreclosure proceeding

**Order absolute of foreclosure vs. Judicial sale**
Respondent is not liable for any deficiency of funds where foreclosure takes place.

> ### Agreement for sale vs. Vendor take-back mortgage

**Agreement for sale**
: Contract by which owner of land agrees to sell land to buyer (right to purchase).<br>Buyer's interest is registered in LTO as charge against seller's certificate of title.<br>Contract provides that purchase price will be paid by installments.

- Seller remains on title
- Agreement for sale is registered as charge against title
- For vendor take-back mortgage, fee simple is transferred to buyer, and mortgage is registered as charge.