# Chapter 10
## The Law of Contract

> ### Essentials for a binding contract

==**Offer**==
- In writing for land sale
- In clear and unambiguous terms
- Made to a specific person vs. standing offer (made to public at large) vs. invitation to treat
- Expiry of offer
    - time limit
    - no time limit, but reasonable time pass
    - offeror cancels
        - Revocation must be communicated with offeree
        - Option agreement to make offer open
- Either party becomes insane before acceptance
- Counter-offer
- Offer is rejected.

Invitation to treat
: Induce public to submit their offer.

==**Acceptance**==
- In clear terms, and positive act
- No effect until communicated to offeror
- Postal acceptance rule<br>Effective when acceptance is put in mailbox (offeree to prove).

==**Consideration**==
: Some right, benefit or profit accruing to the promissor<br>Or some forbearance, detriment, loss or responsibility suffered by the promissee.
- Not review adequacy of consideration
- Past consideration is not legally effective
- Bind a contract without consideration, but if made under seal

**Amendment**
: Contract to change an existing contract.

- Need fresh consideration in exchange for amendment
- Or Mutually agreed-upon changes.

***Quantum meruit***
: As much as is deserved.

==**Legal intention**==
: Serious intention to be bound in agreement between strangers or in a commercial contract.<br>No intention to be bound between friends or family members.

==**Capacity**==
- $\geq$ 19 years of age
- Incapacity
    - infancy
        - unenforceable against infant, but enforceable by infant
        - except
            - 法律允许
            - 19岁以后同意合约有效
            - 18岁时履行合约
            - 19岁那年没有否定合同
    - mental incapacity<br>因为认知损伤，不能意识自己的行为及后果
        - common law test (to proof, otherwise presume capable)
            - 理解合同条款
            - 合同会如何影响他们的权益
            - 对方不能在知道mental incapacity情况下签订合同
        - enforceable transfer of property
            - full and fair price
            - not know incapacity
        - powers of attorney
            - donor is alive
            - expire after 3 years, but valid if donor becomes incapable
            - in scope of authority
        - adult guardianship and committee
    - foreigner and illiterate
        - bound if they neglect terms of contract
        - Misrepresentation leads to non est factum.

==**Legal object**==

==**Genuine consent**==
: Understanding substance of contract.

**Misrepresentation**
: False assertion of fact leading one to an incorrect belief.
- Fasle statement
- Induce other party to enter into contract
- Induce reasonable person to enter.

Expert's opinion is treated by court as statement of fact.

**Disclosure of defects**

Defect
: Characteristic or feature of property materially affects property's value or use.

Silence recognized as a form of misrepresentation.

Patent defect
: Visible or can be discovered by conducting a reasonable inspection or inquiries about the property.

    Caveat emptor applies (let buyer beware).

Latent defect<br>Only latent defects that render a property dangerous or unfit for habitation need to be disclosed to buyers.


> ### Vendor's and licensee's obligations in representing premises for sale

Vendor<br>
Only latent defects that render a property dangerous or unfit for habitation need to be disclosed to buyers.

Licensee<br>
Disclose to all other parties to the trade, any material latent defect in RE that is known to licensee.

Material latent defect
: Can't be discerned through a reasonable inspection, including
- 危险的、不适合居住的、不符合购房者购买意图的
- 高额维修费用
- 政府责令修补
- 没有执照的。

Disclosure can't be made in contract of purchase and sale itself.

> ### Consequences of making misrepresentations

Innocent misrepresentation
- Plaintiff can sue for rescission prior to execution of contract
- Sue for damages.

Fraudulent misrepresentation
- Sue for recission at any time
- Sue for damages
- Escape clause can't protect vendor if fraud occurs
- Escape clause never protect licensees.

> ### Difference between void, voidable and uneforceable contracts

**Void**
: One has never existed at all.

**Illegal**
: Offend against public policy or statute, also void. Illegal contract will not be able to recover money.

**Voidable**
: Any party has option to rescind.

**Unenforceable**
: For some procedural reason, contract cannot be sued.

Mistake
- Common mistake<br>Void contract (一个已经不存在的东西)
- Mutual mistake<br>双方各自指向不同东西
- Unilateral mistake<br>Non est factum.

Void contract
- Duress
- Undue influence
- Unconscionable transaction

> ### Ways to terminate contract
**Performance**

**Agreement to waive performance or substitute another agreement**
- Mutual waiver of obligations
- New consideration to be given to support variation
- Under seal.

**Nonfulfillment of a condition precedent**
- 收益方才能免去条件
- 合同执行不受影响
- 免去条件必须在规定时间之内。

**Frustration**
: Beyond anyone's control, a specific thing is no longer in existence at the time for performance.

**Breach of a condition of the contract which is accepted by the injured party**
- Only a breach of a fundemental term of contract (aka condition)

Warranty可以起诉要求赔偿，但是只有condition才能要求结束合约以及起诉要求specific performance。

> ### Doctrine of privity of contract

> ### Privity interrelates with right of party to assign rights under contract

Statutory assignment
- In writing
- Absolute (for the whole amount) and unconditional
- Notice of assignment in writing to original promissor.

If any missed, the assignment will be an equitable assignment.

For court action
- Equitable assignment<br>All parties
- Statutory assignment<br>Assignee and original promissor.

Except sales under REDMA, offer needs to contain Standard Assignment Terms
- 转让需要卖家书面同意
- 转让收益归卖家所有
- 如果offer没有转让条款，买方代表需要提醒卖方。

Vicarious performance is not an assignment.

> ### Remedies to an innocent party with breach of contract
- Damages (common law remedy)<br>Liquidated damages clause is enforceable, but penalty will be unenforceable.

Others are at court's discretion (equitable remedy)
- Specific performance
- Injunction
- *Quantum meruit*