# Chapter 12
## Law of Agency

> ### Reasons for using agent

- Knowledge, skills and abilities of agent, but principal lacks
- For geographical or other limitations, agent can perform certain action, but principal can't
- Principal doesn't have time or desire.

> ### Agency and dual agency

**Agency**
: Relationship in which one (agent) is granted authority to represent and act for another (principal) in dealings with others.

**Warranty of authority**
: Agent's promise to third parties that their actions fall within scope if authority given by principal.

In BC, agent doesn't have authority to sign a contract on behalf of principal.

> ### 3 major ways to provide trading services in BC by licensee

**Seller sub-agency relationship**

|Seller|Buyer|
|---|---|
|Listing agent|   |
|Selling Agent|   |
- Selling agent gets compensation from listing agent, assumed to be sub-agent of seller
- Both agents owe duties to seller.

**Buyer agency relationship**

|Seller|Buyer|
|---|---|
|Listing agent|Selling agent|
- Ensure buyer's best interest to be achieved.

**Brokerage agency**
: Model of agency where brokerage acts as agent for client. All of brokerage's licensees are considered at law to be agents for client.
- Licensee provides RE services on behalf of brokerage
- Can't act for multiple clients within single transaction.

**Limited dual agency**
: Because duty of loyalty can't be fulfilled to both clients, clients agree to limited form of agency representation.
- Follow instructions of each client
- Provide relevant information
- Assist clients to enter into binding trade in RE.

> ### Model of designated agency

**Designated agency**
: Brokerage appoints one or more specific licensees to act as sole agent of buyer or seller.<br><br>Designated agent owes fundamental agency duties to buyer or seller, while brokerage and other licensee don't.

> ### Ban on dual agency

Rules clarify that dual agency doesn't occur if different designated agents within brokerage act for each of clients under designated agency system.<br><br>Licensees are permitted to provide limited trading services to consumers outside of agency relationship (unrepresented party).<br><br>Licensees need to provide both *Disclosure of Representation in Trading Services form* and *Disclosure of Risks to Unrepresented Parties form*.

Rationale behind ban on dual agency
- Fail to be completely loyal and impartial
- 在不能披露信息情况下，不能提供有效建议
- 自己佣金利益优先。

> ### Exception for practice of dual agency

- In remote location
- Impracticable for parties to be provided trading services by different licensees
- Provide *Disclosure of Risks Associated with Dual Agency form*.

> ### Use and value of standard forms in RE industry in BC

BCFSA prescribed standard forms
- Disclosure of Interest in Trade form
- Disclosure of Representation in Trading Services from
- Disclosure of Risks to Unrepresented Parties form.

> ### To create and terminate agency relationship

==**Contract creation**==
- Agency by express contract
    - Writing or oral
    - Writing for listing agreement unless waived by client
- Agency by implication
    - Established by conduct rather than express contract
- Agency by *estoppel*
    - Actions lead third party to believe agent has authority to act on behalf of principal, like
        - representation by principal
        - reliance by third party
        - alteration of third party's position resulting from reliance
- Agency by ratification<br>Granted retroactively.

***Estoppel***
: Legal principle prevents someone from denying or contradicting a set of facts that he or she has previously expressly or impliedly asserted to be true.

Types of listing contract
- Exclusive listing<br>Exclusive right to sell for specific period
- Multiple listing<br>Exclusive right to sell in cooperation of other brokerage acting for perspective buyer
- Open listing<br>Through designated agent to list property, but no prevent other brokerages to represent.

Items in listing contract
- Parties
- Property
- Listing term
- Agent's authority
- Remuneration paid by seller to listing brokerage
- Handling client's personal information.

**Scope of agent's authority**
- Actual authority given in agency agreement
    - Express authority
    - Implied authority<br>Actions to carry out express authority
    - Usual or customary authority
- Apparent authority<br>Refer to agent by *estoppel*.

==**Contract termination**==
- Express termination<br>Orally or in writing
- Termination by conduct<br>Inconsistent act of principal
- Operation of law

> ### How and when agent becomes personally liable to third party

- No disclosure of agency
- No authority or insufficient authority
- Torts committed by agent<br>Principal may also be liable for damages (vicarious liability).

> ### Duties of agent to principal
- Common law
    - Contractual duties
    - Tort law duties
        - negligence
    - Agency duties
        - Fiduciary duties<br>Agent to proof evidence of fulfillment of their duties
            - duty of loyalty<br>act solely for benefit of principal and put ahead of all others
            - duty to avoid conflicts of interest<br>预见冲突，提早沟通，及时披露
                - disclose and obtain consent of principal
                - stop acting in conflict
            - Duty of full disclosure (both profit and loss if relevant to seller)
            - Duty of confidentiality<br>Not terminated after completion
            - Duty to obey lawful instructions.
- Statute (**the Rules**)
    - Duties to clients
    - Duty to act honestly and with reasonable care and skill.

> ### Ways to address conflict of interest

- Stop providing trading services to both clients<br>Can't work with either client as an unrepresented party
- Can continue represent only one client if obtaining written agreement by all of clients
    - licensee
    - continuing client<br>Licensee can't disclose any confidential information of released client
    - released client<br>Licensee owe duty of confidentiality to released client.

> ### Duties of principal to agent

- Duty to comply with agency agreement
- Duty to remunerate agent
- Duty to indemnify agent

> ### Disclosures related to agency relationship in BC

|Name of Form|Trigger|Purpose|Mandatory BCFSA Form|Submitted to Brokerage?|Submitted to BCFSA|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Disclosure of Representation in Trading Services form|Before providing trading services to or on behalf of party|Ensure consumers to understand trading services;<br>Get informed consent to be represented or unrepresented|<ul>[x] </ul>|<ul>[x] </ul>|If requested|
|Disclosure of Risks to Unrepresented Parties form|To unrepresented party while licensee representing a client in trade|Understand risks of being unrepresented|<ul>[x] </ul>|<ul>[x] </ul>|If requested|
|Disclosure for Residential Tenancies|To unrepresented tenant when licensee acting for landlord|Ensure tenants to understand licensee's duties|<ul>[x] </ul>|<ul>[x] </ul>|If requested|
|Disclosure of Risks Associated with Dual Agency form|Before narrow exception permitted|Ensure consumers to understand risks involved;<br>Consumers can choose other options or provide informed consent|<ul>[x] </ul>|<ul>[x] (with statement signed by managing broker)</ul>|<ul>[x] </ul>|

Agreement Regarding Conflict of Interest Between Clients is not a disclosure, but rather a written agreement.

> ### Disclosures related to remuneration of licensee in BC

|Name of Form|Trigger|Purpose|Mandatory BCFSA Form|Submitted to Brokerage?|Submitted to BCFSA|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Disclosure of Remuneration - Trading Services form|Receive or anticipate receive, directly or indirectly|Ensure clients to have full disclosure|<ul>[ ] </ul>|<ul>[x] </ul>|If requested|
|Disclosure to Sellers of Expected Remuneration(Payment) form|Required by seller's licensee when presenting an offer or counteroffer to acquire RE to seller|Ensure sellers to have full disclosure if a particular offer or counteroffer accepted|<ul>[x] </ul>|<ul>[x] </ul>|If requested|

> ### Purpose of disclosure of interest in trade, latent defects, and notice related to contract assignments

|Name of Form|Trigger|Purpose|Mandatory BCFSA Form|Submitted to Brokerage?|Submitted to BCFSA|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Disclosure of Material Latent Defects|Licensee aware of undisclosed material latent defect;<br>不能加在买卖协议中|Ensure all parties beware before making decision|<ul>[ ] </ul>|<ul>[x] </ul>|If requested|
|Disclosure of Interest in Trade form|持牌人直接或间接买卖房产(个人或亲戚公司持股5%以上)之前|客户知晓持牌人参与，保护自己权益|<ul>[x] </ul>|<ul>[x] </ul>|If requested|
|HBRP Form|买方持牌人prepare offer;卖方持牌人帮买家present offer|买家卖家知晓HBRP以及各方的权益|BCFSA批准的文件|<ul>[x] </ul>|If requested|
|Notice to Seller Regarding Assignment Terms|买家offer没有包含assignment terms|卖方知晓协议不包含转让条款|<ul>[x] </ul>|<ul>[x] </ul>|If requested|
