# Chapter 18
## Local Government Law

> ### Powers of federal and provincial governments regulating use of property

**Federal government**
- Exclusive jurisdiction of development
- Operation of airports, federal Department of Transportation, Fisheries
    - height of buildings
    - other objects, like trees
- Rivers
    - controlling activities near rivers
- Own lands

**Provincial government**

*Agricultural Land Commission Act*<br>Preserve areas of land to be available for argicultural
- ALC power
    - pass regulation affecting ALR land
    - exclude land from ALR
    - allow non-farm use of ALR
    - allow subdivision of ALR land
- ALR land
    - principal residence of total floor area $\leq$ 500 $m^2$
    - secondary and additional residence by local government approval
- Local legislation must be consistent with ALC Act and subject to ALC decisions
- Local governments have land using planning and regulatory responsibilities for ALR land.

*Public Health Act*<br>Maintain public health of province, like installation of septic tank disposal fields.

*Local Services Act*<br>Planning regulations and functions.

*Islands Trust Act*<br>Preservation and protection of unique amenities and environment of Gulf Islands. Provincial government assigned planning powers to trust committee.

*Transportation Act*<br>Approval required prior to any rezoning of lands within radius of 800m of intersection of controlled access highway.

*Environmental Management Act*<br>Screening process to screen out contaminated sites.

*Heritage Conservation Act*<br>Regulate and prohibit demolition, relocation, and alteration.

> ### Local governments derive their powers and controls on these powers

**Local government**
: Regional districts, municipalities and improvement districts.

**Enabling legislation**
: Statute that grants entity authorization or legitimacy of power to take certain actions.

Local governments derive powers from provincial legislature.

> ### Key enabling legislation for local governments in BC

- *Local Government Act*
- *Community Charter*
- *Vancouver Charter*

> ### Levels of local government created by *Local Government Act*, and their powers and governance

- Regional districts
    - long term planning power from province
    - public housing, trunk sewer lines, libraries
    - roles if no municipal government
- Municipal governments
    - adoption and enforcement of planning regulations by mayor and council
- Improvement districts
    - construction
    - operation
    - maintenance of utilities.

Local government regulation of land use
- Official community plans
- Zoning bylaws
- Subdivision bylaws
- Licensing bylaws
- Land use contracts
- Permit requirements
- Building bylaws

**Municipality**
: Village, town, city, or municipal district to whom authority over local affairs has been delegated by provincial government.

> ### Objectives of planning controls at local government level

- Public health and safety
- Protection of property values
- Efficiency, convenience and appearance
- Conservation of natural resources

> ### Planning process in BC

Advisory planning commission
: Committee made up of volunteer members of public who advise local government on planning and land use related matters.

Professional planners
: Advisors in analyzing problems, studying alternative solutions, and recommending course of action and means of implementation.

Elected representatives
: Mayor and councillors.

1. Public will be consulted and opinions obtained
1. Testing and revision of alternatives until elected officials are satisfied.

> ### Official community plan

**Official community plan**
: High level, long-term plan intended to guide direction of development and growth of local government.

To encourage local government to prepare long range plans dealing with future development. To plan future growth and financial ability.

Bylaws, permits issued must be consistent with OCP. If not, amend OCP first.

OCP includes
- 地点、种类等满足至少未来5年房屋居住需求
- 配套商业、工业、功能性商业需求
- 根据环境，土地使用的限制
- 高速、排污等规划
- Public facilities.

> ### Rural land use bylaw

To consolidate guidelines similar to an OCP along with regulations governing zoning and related matters. Simpler and less costly.

> ### Zoning bylaws
Nature and effect

**Zoning**
: Division of region into separate districts with different regulations for land use.

- Restrictions on number of buildings on lot
- Set-backs and yards
- Height
- Density
- Home occupations
- Off-street loading and parking
- Signs
- Specific regulations

OCPs designate current or intended future use of property, higher level and less prescriptive, but zoning bylaws regulate only current land use.

> ### Rezoning

1. Application submitted
1. Review by staff
1. First reading
1. Second reading
1. Public hearing
1. Third hearing
1. Applicant satisfies any conditions of adoption
1. Adoption

Property owner can't claim compensation for rezoning bylaw.

> ### Impact of land use contracts on land use

Land use contract
: Special type of zoning bylaw amendment. Contract made between property owner and local government, registered as restrictive covenants in LTO. But no longer created.

> ### Non-conforming use

**Lawful non-conforming use**
: Land use that is impermissible under current zoning restrictions, but is nevertheless permitted because use existed lawfully before restrictions took effect.

Non-conforming use may continue
- Through successive changes of ownership (period $\geq$ 6 months, $\geq$ 90 days in Vancouver)
- No structural alteration or addition, unless required by law or permitted by board of variance
- Can't be extended over larger area of land
- Change in ownership does not change status of use. Rebuilt if damaged or destroyed value $\leq$ 75%.

> ### Board of variance

Board of variance
: Provide site-by-site exceptions to regulations prescribed by zoning bylaw if zoning bylaw causes undue hardship.

> ### Permits of use and development of property

Permits allow local government to vary provisions of zoning bylaw or subdivision servicing requirements on site-by-site basis.

**Development permit**
: Manage development in areas with special needs or conditions. 
- 自然环境保护
- Protection of development from hazardous conditions
- 农场保护
- 商业重建
- Establishment of objectives for
    - 高密度住宅
    - 商业、工业、多户住宅
    - 旅游度假项目
    - 绿色环保项目

If land is designated as DP area, DP is needed for construction or alteration. DPs include schedules showing site or design plans for property.

**Development variance permit**
: Can't vary land use or density provisions in bylaws. For minor variance.

**Temporary use permit**
: Owner of land apply to local government for temporary commercial or industrial use permit.

> ### Process of subdivision and role of approving officer

*Land Title Act* creates position of approving officer who consents to subdivision of land. Approving officer may refuse if plan is against public interest or plan doesn't comply with bylaws.

Appeal if
- In bad faith
- 歧视业主
- 基于不充分事实。

Under subdivision bylaw, developer may need
- Services (e.g. roads, water lines) are constructed prior to granting approval, or a letter of credit to ensure work to be completed to required standard at their own cost
- Dedicate up to 5% of land for park purposes
- Protect riverbanks and streams
- Development cost charges for certain facilities and infrastructure projects
- Community amenity contributions (negotiated between developers and local governments).

> ### Impact of building bylaws and licensing bylaws on land user

**Building bylaw**
: Protect public health and safety.
- Need building permit for constructing, repairing, etc
- Granted if proposed work conforms to standard prescribed in bylaw
- Building inspectors check.

Contravention of building bylaw
- Fine
- Order of demolition, removal, or stopping any work in progress
- Notice on title, may not appear on simply searching title.

**Licensing bylaw**
: Municipalities require that all businesses in their municipality obtain business licences and may also regulate how those businesses are operated.

Licensee needs to make sure that business is permitted under bylaws.
