# Chapter 19
## Taxes on Real Property

> ### Main taxes applying to purchase or sale of real property in BC

**Goods and Services Tax**
: Federal tax paid on goods and services sold or provided in Canada.

- To tax **final value** (no GST on deposit) created through production of item
- Sellers of real property need to collect tax and can recover GST paid on development and other costs.

Under *Excise Tax Act*
- *Taxable supply* is supply that is made in course of commercial activity, including transfer of real property, every interest in real property
- *Supply* is provision of property or services in any manner whatever
- *Commercial activity* includes making of supply other than exempt supply.

Obligations in scheme of GST
- Buyer is tax-payer for GST
- Buyer pays GST directly for hotel alike (Airbnb)
- Sellers need to collect and remit GST
    - If fail to collect, seller will be liable to CRA
    - Exemption
        - commercial property and buyer is registered for GST by time of closing
        - buyer is entitled to input tax credit, avoiding cash flow problem (self-assessing)
        - non-resident seller
- If CRA audits and assesses, debt is immediately collectible
    - 90 days to file objection to CTA Appeals Division
    - 90 days to appeal to Tax Court of Canada
    - Appeal to Federal Court of Appeal and possibly to Supreme Court of Canada
- No exemption for used housing
- Exemption for sales by person who isn't a builder (martial distress), which depends on operating intention, profit
- Short-term rentals<br>defer GST, but only for nights rented out, not listed
- Assignment for business is GST taxable
- Obtain advice on lease and First Nations Land.

**Input tax credit**
: GST deduction a person can claim in their GST return for amount of GST paid by that person on acquisition of property or services.

**Self-supply rule**
: Builders have sold home to themselves at time of move-in or leased to long-term tenant, and they owe GST on property value even without actual sale.<br><br>Eventual sale is exempt. Buyer can refund if identify issue in 2 years of payment. Seller can't shift GST to buyer.

**Property Transfer Tax**
: Applies to any transfer of interest in real property that is registered at LTO, including Crown grant and life estate. Payable by buyer on fair market value.
- May include assignment fee or consideration
- Include fixture, including machinery and equipment
- Buyer must pay to government before property registered.

PTT rate
- 1% for first $200,000
- 2% for \$200,000 $<$ value $\leq$ \$2,000,000
- 3% for value $>$ $2,000,000
- additional 2% for value $>$ $3,000,000

First Time Home Buyers' Program<br>
Conditions to be exempted from PPT
- 公民或居民
- 在省内住满1年
- 之前没有在全球范围内有住房
- Value $<$ \$500,000 and area $<$ 0.5 hectares
    - partial exemption if violate any.

Newly Built Home Exemption Program
- 公民或居民
- Principal residence
- Value $<$ \$750,000
    - partial relief if value $<$ \$800,000.

Foreign Buyers' Tax
: Applies to foreign nationals, foreign corporations and taxable trustees (rate = 20%) on residential property.
- If property is residential and commercial mix, tax applies to residential
- If one of buyers is foreigner, tax applies to entire purchase
- 外国人继承遗产，不用付PTT，但是需要支付Foreign Buyers' Tax
- BCPNP时期买房，并在一年内成为PR，可以claim back。

Withholding taxes for non-residents selling property
- Withhold 25% of non-depreciable property (residence)
- Withhold 50% of depreciable property
- In lawyer's trust account
- 除非卖家提供清税证明。

> ### Capital gains and how to be taxed upon sale of property

- 50% of capital gains are taxable
- Principal residence is exempted
- If defined as business income, 100% of profit is taxable
- Profit vs. Capital gain
    - 交易目的
    - 交易时长，长资金还是短资金，房子拥有时长
    - 是否职业
    - 其他房产持有者的目的。

> ### Main taxes applying to ownership or use of real property in BC

**Property Tax**
- Mill rate, tax rate applies to each $1,000 of net taxable value
- Registered owner at Nov.30th in LTO is liable for property tax
- Land and improvements are taxable based on actual value and property class
    - include production machinery
    - property affixed to land
    - property with more than one use has split classification
- Taxing authorities levy various real property taxes grouped together as Property Tax
    - 市政、学校、教育、交通、税务
    - regional districts
    - BC Assessment.

**Speculation and Vacancy Tax**
- Payable by registered owner or co-owners on Dec. 31 in LTO
- Applies to corporations, partnerships and trust
- Each owner needs to complete annual declaration
- Taxable region in BC except
    - reserve lands, treaty lands, self-governing Indigenous Nations
    - 只有水路和空路交通
    - 政府用地、注册慈善
    - housing co-ops
- Tax is based on assessment value and due following Jul.
- Tax rate
    - 2.0% for foreign owner and satellite family members
    - 0.5% for citizens and PR
- Exemptions<br>Citizen or PR + BC resident for income tax
    - principal residence
    - rental property occupied by tenant for at least 6 months
        - citizen or PR is eligible for both non-arm length and arm length rental exemption if it's tenant's principal residence
    - renovation, divorce, illness.

Satellite family
: Spousal unit or individual declares less than 50% of total combined household income.

**City of Vancouver's Vacancy Tax**
- Rate = 5%
- Short-term rental without hotel or B&B license is payable
- Owners complete Property Status Declaration in Dec each year
- EHT到期日四月第十个工作日
- Exemptions
    - 受限于strata bylaw，不能出租
    - 屋主居住180天用于在温哥华上班
    - redevelopment or renovation with permit
    - 住院
    - 屋主过失，并没有遗嘱
    - 房产在年内过户
    - 地皮受限不能建住宅
    - under court order prohibiting occupancy.

Residential properties located within City of Vancouver may be subject to SVT and EHT.

> ### Tax exemptions and reliefs relating to Property Tax

Property Tax relief
- Assess value other than market value for farm land, forest land, and certain residential property
- Home owner grant for eligible residence (principal residence + citizen or PR)
    - $570 for properties in Metro Vancouver, Fraser Valley and Capital Regional District
    - $770 for properties in northern and rural area
- Additional grants and defer payment
    - seniors
    - veterans
    - disabled
    - family with children program
- Tax credit eligibility.

> ### Process of property assessment

***Assessment Notice***
: Notice informing property owner of value of property as of Jul. 1 of previous year.

***Tax notice***
: Statement distributed to each property owner within municipality requesting payment of taxes based on next taxable value of their property.

Property assessment
1. Jul. 1<br>Valuation date of Assessment Roll
1. Oct. 31<br>State and condition of property is established for *Assessment Notice*
    - Owner has no obligation to report renovation during this period
1. Nov. 30<br>Ownership established
1. Dec 31<br>*Assessment roll* mailed to owner
1. Jan. 31<br>Last date for filling appeal of assessed value to Property Assessment Review Panels
1. Mar. 31<br>Property Assessment Review Panels confirm and authenticate Assessment Roll
1. Apr. 30<br>Deadline for filing appeal to Property Assessment Appeal Board
1. Appeal to Supreme Court of BC (21 days)
1. Appeal to BC Court of Appeal (30 days)
1. Appeal to Supreme Court of Canada.

Assessment appeals<br>Any person may make complaint against entry in Assessment Roll
- 名字错或漏
- 房产不对
- 房产估值太高或太低
- 错误分类
- 豁免被错误通过或否决
