# Chapter 20
## Building Design and Construction

> ### Common architectural and construction styles

Architectural design
- Bauhaus<br>四四方方、不对称、平顶
- Shingle<br>陡坡顶、不对称、不对称窗户
- West coast<br>平缓顶、大圆顶、窗户多
- Prairie<br>单层、陡坡砖顶、横纵线
- Narrow lot or Vancouver special<br>小房子、浅但是很长阳台、1层是砖面
- Po-Mo<br>石灰墙面、色彩丰富
- Environmentally conscious<br>北面没有窗、太阳能板
- Ranch style<br>单层、特别大、石灰墙面或砖面

> ### Residential houses by several methods

- By measuring floor area or number of floors
- By external style
    - Traditional style
        - Classical<br>对称、圆柱门廊、三角开放式大门
        - Victorian<br>尖顶、塔尖形状、大烟囱、不对称出、砖面、饼干纹
        - Georgian<br>对称、红砖或白砖、多格窗户、一个门廊、一个大烟囱
        - Elizabethan<br>石灰涂层表面有木条装饰
        - Cape code<br>瓦墙面、尖屋顶、天窗
        - French<br>3层楼、2层墙面是砖、3层屋顶组成
        - Chalet<br>大屋檐、尖屋顶
        - Arts and crafts<br>好木头、大
- By structural method

> ### Distinguish between construction qualities

**Building codes**<br>for new building or substantial renovation of existing buildings
- Structural strength to resist forces acting on buildings
- Resistance to spread of fire
- Resistance to heat movement and vapour transmission
- Adequate light and ventilation
- Resistance to sound transmission
- Adequate means of egress
- Protection against smoke penetration

**Licensing and Consumer Services**<br>Branch of BC Housing
- Licencing residential builders including general contractors and building envelope renovators province-wide
- Administering owner-builder authorizations
- Carrying out research and education
- *New Homes Registry*
    - if built by licensed residential builder or owner builder
    - if covered by home warranty insurance and commencement date
    - name and contact information of warranty provider

***Homeowner Protection Act*** regulates
- All residential home builders must be licenced and registered
- All new homes must be registered in New Homes Registry
- All new homes must be covered by home warranty insurance unless exempt
    - New home can't be sold while
        - being constructed
    - Within 10 years from date occupancy permit was issues
        - new home covered by home warranty insurance
        - owner- builder is exempted
            - 个人
            - 建完，居住满1年，期间不能出租
            - 个人负责建筑工程
- Minimum coverage
    - 2 years for materials and labour
    - 5 years for building envelope
    - 10 years for structural defects
    - property in fee simple claim $>$ \$200,000 and strata unit $>$ \$100,000.

**New home**
- More than 75% of home's structure above its foundation has been removed or replaced, or
- 50%以上的地基重建。

> ### Common problems and remedies associated with different components of house

**Multi-family dwelling substructures**

Foundation
: Lowest part of building or structure, serving as support of building or structure as a whole and typically placed below ground level.<br><br>Foundation wall must be minimum of 8 inches above ground level.

- Damproofing<br>Black coating applied to outside of foundation below grade to prevent entry of water by sealing minor capillary pores
- Moisture management<br>Storm water can be directed to municipal storm  system
- Level of underground water table
- Soil subsidence

**Multi-family dewelling superstructures**

Superstructure
: Walls, floors, and roof of a building.
- Wood stud frame, concrete framing are more common
- Steel frame
- Masonry and timber

Roof designs
- Gable<br>$\Lambda$ shape
- L-shaped gable
- Gable with dormer
- Flat
- Shed or Lean-to<br>朝一侧倾斜
- Hip or Cottage
- Mansard<br>四边都是斜坡，垂下去地方更陡
- Gambrel<br>两段斜坡屋顶

Roof structures
- Rafter and ceiling joist roof<br>梁(joist)+两边斜顶(rafter)
- Truss<br>多了斜角支撑(webs)

**Building envelope system**
: Elements that protect structure's internal environment form moisture, dust, wind, and extreme temperatures, skin of house.

External cladding
- Options
    - Wood
    - Aluminum or vinyl siding<br>受热容易膨胀
    - Stucco
        - 普通石灰泥
        - 合成石灰泥<br>水汽出不去，太密封
    - Face brick
    - Cement board siding
    - Glazing systems

Windows
- Sealed double-glazed unites
- Low-E coatings on window
- Gas fill
- Insulated spacer
- Insulated window frame
- No-thermal broken vs. thermal broken

Doors
- Fire doors for
    - 逃生楼梯间
    - 燃烧炉室
    - 停车间
    - 电房

Insulation
- Greater R value, greater resistance to heat flow

HVAC
|Type|Advantage|Disadvantage|
|---|---|---|
|Electrical baseboard heating|没用排管道<br>没用锅炉<br>独立控制<br>反应较快 |没有空气过滤<br>加热片占地方|
|Central gas-fired forced hot air|反应最快<br>有空气过滤|要排管道<br>有时有气流|
|Central gas-fired forced hot water with room baseboard units|Steady consistent heat|占地方<br>反应慢<br>不抗冻<br>没有空气过滤|
|Wood-fired space heater in living or family room|便宜因为局部加热<br>|局部加热<br>加燃料不方便<br>防烟尘|

> ### Common defects in building design and construction

Substructure and superstructure inspection
- Cracks, gaps, slippage, or bulges that show up on siding or around any opening, such as windows and doors, can indicate structural movement.
- Cracks in foundation are result of settling from
    - penetration of frost under foundation
    - excavation or alteration of original ground line if structure was constructed according to code
    - improper installation of footings
    - perimeter drainage system
    - earthquake.
- Cracks
    - if sharp, recent and occurring
    - if rounded and smooth edges, distress is old and stopped
    - if uneven, settle unevenly.
- Smell of air, moisture or cold draft of walls and lumber overhead, distress inside.
- Dry rot or insect infestation can indicate serious problems with foundation.
- If smell of mildew is present, presence of ground water and cracks are expected.
- Sloping floors due to inadequate foundation.

Roof inspection
- Gravel should cover roof unifromly, and flat roof should drain properly.

Insulation inspection
- Signs of dampness or mould of wall surface.

Electrical systems inspection
- Common types of wire
    - knob and tube wiring
    - aluminum wiring
    - copper wiring.

Plumbing inspection
- Water supply pipe
    - copper
    - plastic
    - galvanized
        - reduced pressure
- Swage
    - lead
        - leak with age
    - cast iron
        - inflexible and leak due to movement
    - ABC.

Housing defects
- Design defects
- Visible defects
    - by improper installation
    - by low quality products
    - by improper use and treatment
    - by inadequate maintenance
- Invisible defects
    - by omission
    - by improper installation
    - by improper materials
    - by improper maintenance.

> ### Components of greened home and various rating services and programs
Components
- Mechanical ventilation
- Exhaust only ventilation
- Circulation
- High-efficiency furnaces
- Weather barriers
- Vapour barriers
- Continuous air barrier
- Heat barrier
- ENERGY STAR $^{\circledR}$

Programs
- EnerGuide
- ENERGY STAR $^{\circledR}$
- Power Smart
- R-2000
- BUILT GREEN $^{\circledR}$
- LEED $^{\circledR}$ for Homes

---
> ### Takeaways
- Glassfibre batt is most common type of wall insulation, not rigid glassfibre.
- Slab is part of foundation system.
- Cement board siding is a type of siding that has increased in popularity due to its durability and reliability.
- Thermal broken frames are split into two sections between the outside and inside of the house to reduce heat conduction.
- Exterior wall supports structure as they should, not interior wall.
- Lack of ventilation doesn't cause cracks in outside walls.
- Uneven crack is evidence of uneven settlement.
- Large cracks in wall or ceiling finish on upper floors indicate structural distress.
- Flooring is generally installed over a wood or concrete subfloor, and carpet generally has a layer of foam underlay as well.
- polystyrene insulation is a rigid insulation that is used for sheathing insulation on wall and floor surfaces.
- Header is structural member, usually wood, placed at top of window openings.
- Rafter is structural member that supports roof deck.
- Dormer is roof extensions used to provide extra floor area and windows for upper level.
- Damproofing is material applied to foundation walls to seal minor capillary pores in the concrete.
- If home is less than 25 years old, size of main breaker usually determines service.
- The Canadian Electrical Code requires that new or substantially renovated houses of more than 80 square metres have a service capacity of at least 100 amps.
- Aluminum is not commonly used for water supply piping.
- Wood-frame exterior wall buildup from inside outward: interior finish, vapour barrier, insulation, wood frame, plywood sheathing, building paper, exterior siding.
- Polyethylene vapour barrier must be used immediately under the interior wood panelling on the perimeter walls of a western platform wood-frame house in order to ensure proper function of the vapour barrier.
- Zinc strips discourage moss growth on a roof.
- Concrete framing is the most common type of construction today for high-rise apartment buildings. This is because most high-rise residential buildings normally require a two-hour fire-rating for floors and columns and concrete will achieve this rating without any additional protection for most applications.
- The rise is the height difference of each step, and the run is the depth of the step. 