# Chapter 21
## Introduction to Real Estate Appraisal

> ### Purpose of appraisal serving

Why appraisal needed
- Limited data and information available
- Uniqueness
- Low response to market pressures
- Effected by externalities.

Purpose of appraisal
- Statutory reason
- Market reason

> ### Relationship between ceiling price, floor price, and sale price

**Ceiling price**
: Maximum price a purchaser is willing to pay for a property.

**Floor price**
: Minimum price at which seller is willing to sell their property.


> ### Value to owner and market value

Appraiser is not to justify MV. Justification of MV falls in the area of investment.

**Value to owner**
: Personal opinion of property's value held by individual owner. Whether to buy or not question.

**Market value**
: Price might reasonably be expected to realized when sold by a willing seller to a willing buyer after adequate time and exposure to market.
- Value is related to certain point in time
- Reasonably expected
- Willing seller and willing buyer
- Adequate time and exposure to market.

Reasons for using MV
- Objective
- Applies to large proportion of past transactions
- Applies to large number of appraisal situations.

**Investment value**
: Value that is specific to a particular investor.

Economic forces tend to change more slowly and less important to appraiser than factors affecting supply and demand.

> ### Redevelopment potential and property's highest and best use

**Highest and best value**
: Use of land, within all legal, physical, financial and market constraints, will provide maximum net return during foreseeable future.

**Latent value**
: Value possessed by property that has potential for redevelopment because it's currently not employed at its highest and best use.

> ### Factors affecting demand and supply of real property

Influences on demand
- Population
- Income
- Preference and tastes
- Cost of alternatives
- Technological changes
- Transportation facilities
- Government policies

Influences on supply
- Price of property
- Price of alternative properties
- Technology
- Goals of owner

Supply of real property can't be increased or decreased rapidly. Supply of real property is fixed in location.

> ### Classification of RE markets

- Land use types
- Location
- Price ranges

> ### Potential sources of data, data collection, and analysis of subject property

Data collection
- General data
    - Economic factors
    - Regional analysis
    - Neighborhood analysis
- Specific data
    - Physical factors
    - Location factors
    - Government factors
    - Financial factors
    - Environmental factors
- Transactional elements
    - Time allowed
    - Advertising
    - Relationship between parties
    - Financing involved
    - Special purchasers

> ### Appraisal approaches

Direct comparison approach<br>Based on *principle of substitution*
: Property's value should not exceed cost of purchasing alternate property providing similar utility.<br><br>

Income/Investment approach
: PV of all its anticipated future net benefits, which is often used for commercial RE as income-producing investment.<br><br>Similar principles to comparative approaches requiring market evidence from similar properties.<br><br>

Cost approach
: Property value can never exceed cost of replacing one.<br> MV = land value + improvement cost - depreciation<br>
Least exact because
- Cost of building may be different from MV
- Difficulty in measuring depreciation.

Residual method
: Mix of above methods, used for latent value.

> ### Options for reporting final value estimates
- Oral or written
    - Narrative
    - Short form narrative
    - Form report
- CMA<br>Short-form narrative report prepared by registrant for seller of property to establish an estimated MV and recommended listing price.

> ### Legal consideration for appraisers, legal consequences resulting from negligently prepared appraisal report, and compensation

- Appraisers are exempted from licensing requirements
- Code of Ethics of appraisal organizations provides guidance
- Appraisers owe duty of care to those persons being foreseen to take action based on appraisal report
- Appraisers can use disclaimers and reliance letters to limit liability
    - requiring consent from original client in the case of breaching confidentiality.

> ### AVMs and future of appraisal

Automated valuation models (AVMs)
: Computer program analyses large volumes of data using an automated process to estimate MV.