# Chapter 22
## Direct Comparison (Comparative) and Cost Approaches of Appraisal

> ### Basis of direct comparison approach of appraisal

Principle of substitution

> ### Terms of recent and similar

Recent
: Timer period just prior to date of valuation over which demand and supply conditions have remained relatively stable.

Similar
: Two properties are similar if actual differences between properties will not have material effect on their selling price.

> ### Effect on value of different building and lot characteristics, and conditions of sale

Building characteristics
- Design<br>size, number of rooms, floor plan rather than architectural style
- Construction and maintenance
- Equipment
- Age

Lot characteristics
- Natural features
- Proximity to man-made amenities
- Lot size

Title and conditions of sale
- Mortgage, such as vendor take-back mortgage with rate lower than market rate

> ### Adjustments made to comparable properties

**Subject property**
: Standard of comparison.

**Comparable sale**
: Adjusted towards subject property.

The fewer the adjustments, the better the comparable. Net adjustment < 20%

> ### Comparative approach of appraisal using rating grid

Subject Property value = Comparable Property Sale Price $\pm$ Adjustments

> ### Cases where comparative approach is most useful

Condominiums
- 2 condominium units may be affording differences in common area amenities
- One may own extra property with considerable value, but the other may have liens or mortgages
- Different common area charges
- Different condominium corporation bylaws.

Other improved properties
- Applied to apartment building or warehouse
- Large number of items to be adjusted.

Subdivided and serviced residential lots

> ### Limitations of comparative approach

- Unusual subject property
- Very few sales taking place
- Rapidly changing market
- Difficulty in establishing similarity
    - Especially for income producing property because of different return rates expected.

> ### Cost approach

MV = Site Value + Cost of Improvements - Depreciation

> ### Cost equals market value

Equilibrium between cost and market value.

> ### Estimation of cost of construction

Site value
: Market value of land, excluding cost of clearing timer, levelling, draining.

Reproduction cost
: Cost of providing exact replica of subject property.

**Replacement cost**
: Cost of building modern equivalent of subject property.

> ### Different categories of depreciation

**Age-life method**
: Percentage Depreciation = Effective Age / Economic Life

**Breakdown method**
- Curable<br>Depreciation can be corrected economically
- Incurable<br>Cannot

**Physical depreciation**
: Caused by physical wear and tear.

**Functional depreciation**
: Elements may still be adequately fulfilling their purpose, but are deemed to be below standards expected in market.

**External depreciation**
: Items outside property itself, often considered incurable.

> ### Cases where cost approach is most useful

Lack of data for income or comparison approaches. Always last resort.

> ### Limitations of cost approach

- If cost and market value are equal
- Property must represent highest and best use
- Depends on appraiser's judgement, particularly for incurable depreciation.