# Chapter 23
## The Income or Investment Approach of Appraisal

> ### Typical operating expenses borne by owner of apartment building

**Fixed expense**
: Must be paid regardless of level of occupancy.
- Real property taxes
- Insurance policies

**Variable expense**
: Vary based on nature of occupancy and amount of lease activity required.
- Management
    - 自己管理，也要预估费用，大楼不能自己管理自己
- Utilities
- Maintenance and repairs
    - 假如立刻就要的维护，成本直接从最后估值扣除
- Cleaning/Janitorial
- Grounds and parking area maintenance
- Wages
- Garbage removal
- Decorating
- Miscellaneous expense

Gross lease
- Owner pays all operating costs
- May have escalator clause.

Net lease
- Tenant pays rent plus operating expenses.

> ### Items omitted from calculation of net operating income and why they are omitted

- Depreciation
    - difference between economic and physical durability
    - economic life is long, so not important
    - not objective
    - depreciation vs. appreciation
    - hard to know depreciation value to vender and purchaser
- Income tax
    - varies according to owners
- Capital cost allowance
- Debt service
    - unique financing package.

> ### Compute net operating income

Gross potential revenue
: Potential rents earned if building has 100% occupancy.

Vacancy and bad debt allowance
:  Reductions attribute to vacancies, tenant turnover, and nonpayment of rent or other income.

Gross Realized Revenue<br>= Gross Potential Revenue<br>+ Other Income<br>- Vacancy and Bad Debt Allowance

Net Operating Income<br>= Gross Realized Revenue<br> - Operating Expenses

> ### Yield earned on sales of properties

Yield = Income / Sale Price

> ### Market value of property using capitalization process

MV = NOI / Yield (Capitalization Rate)